Introduction to Flutter:

What is Flutter?
1) Mobile UI Framework for creating native apps for iOS and Android.
2) Single code base (dart) means we only have to write our app once for multiple devices.

Why Git - Version control system and we use it to track changes in our code.

Why use flutter?

Only 1 code base
Good layout meyhodology borrowed from responsive web
Very smooth and quick experience when running apps
works well with Firebase as a backend
Uses dart, which is a really easy language to pick up
Uses material Design out of the box 



Widgets - bedrock of flutter applications

Types:

Root Widget: In an app created by flutter, surrounding the entire app is the widget known as root widget.
App Bar Widget: Nested inside the root widget is the App bar widget.
Container Widget: Another nested widget inside root widget. Inside this also text widgets can be there.
Text Widget: Nested further inside is the text widget, which contains the title.

Widget basically forms like a widget tree inside the app. The tree basically describes the structure of the widgets inside the App.

Examples of other widgets: Button widgets(to insert buttons), Row/Column Widgets: To layout the app in rows or columns, Image Widget: Inserting Images etc.

Each widget contains some properties for proper development of the app which defines how they actually look and behave on a screen.

Text Widget: may contain style, text align, overflow, maxLines and other properties
Button widget: may contain properties such as color, elevation, disabledColor etc.


DART:

Variables & Datatypes:
Dart is a staticly typed programming language. In Dart once the datatype of variable is defined it cannot be changed.
Dart comes with a different datatype which is knwon as dynamic.
Dynamic datatype allows the user to change the type of the variable, but this can cause confusions when working with staticly typed programming and ultimately lead to errors.
It is better for any app to have the varianle names and types declared first.
List is also used as a datatype in Dart. It has the same features as in python i.e. mutability

Functions:
Working of functions in Dart is the same as the working in any other languages.
In Dart functions can also be allowed to return any value with the help of arrows by deleting the parathesis, unlike other function calling in oyher programming languages.

Tried few basc programs in Dart and intend to start working with Android Visual Studio. Really need help from mentors as i am totally new in this topic.

 

